
NS keeps listening for clients and ss to connect to it.
Whenever client connects, it takes their username. If that client is not there in the ALL-users list, that client is added to the ALL-users list. Then the client is also added to the current users list. The client is removed from current users list when he logs off.
A storage server has an indexing of all the file paths in it that are accessible to the users. The ns takes this from every ss that connects, and puts it in its own file indexing.
SS indexing: Column in the file index:
File path of all files.
Modified flag.
NS indexing:
File path of all files in all ss
Ip and port of Sss storing this file.


Ns to client:
Client connects to Ns and gives its username.
Client sends requests to Ns (according to the doc, like read, write etc.)
Ns processes client request and decides further action. It may ask ss to connect to client and then do something, or it may serve the request to the client by itself.
When client logs off, the client name is removed from the current users list.
Ns to ss:
SS connects to ns and gives its username. SS then sends its file indexing. The NS indexes these files. The file index in ns has the file path, and the ss it can be found in. So for a client to access the file, he has to give the path of the file.
Ns has to check for file permissions, i.e. if the user can access some file via some operation. For this purpose, ss also has to give the info file associated with every single file when it connects to the ns. Also, after every operation that interacts with the file, the ss should be able update the info file and pass the updated info file back to the ns.
Back up strategy : for every storage server SS_i we have a back-up server BS_i which connects simultaneously along with SS_i. If SS_i is closed, BS_i is also closed. If at any point SS_i doesn't have a backup, print a warning that “data may not be backed up”.
Back up scenario : SS_i disconnects, NS will fetch the corresponding Backup server ip from files_list hashmap. Also in the hashmap have an up_to_date flag for SS and BS. If BS is modified in absence of SS pull down the flag of SS to indicate whenever SS joins again it should replicate its data.  If SS is modified in absence of BS pull down the flag of BS to indicate whenever BS joins again it should replicate its data.
Back up scenario: both bss and ss online: after every write, delete, createfile, create dir etc. operation, update bss with info from ss. Dont send all data of the ss to bss, just the modified/newly created thing.
BSS_i keeps sleeping and waiting on condition ss_1 goes down.
Checkpoint: User specified filename and tag (1 or 2). Save in corresponding checkpoint directory.
SS structure:
home_dir: all user visible files and directories. User cannot migrate out of this
undo_dir: all the undo files
checkpoint_1_dir: dir of all ‘1’ tagged checkpoints
checkpoint_2_dir: dir of all ‘2’ tagged checkpoints
info_dir: info (read access users, owner, write access users etc. etc. etc.)
Heartbeats: 
ns checks if ss is alive
Ns checks if bss is alive
Ss checks if bss is alive
Client checks if ss is alive for WRITE operation. If not, ask for bss from ns and connect to bss and try continuing the write.
Request access:Requests file in ns. 
Request id
File path
Username of requested
Username of owner
The owner can approve/reject requests addressed to him and remove the request. If he tries to accept/reject someone else, just deny and dont remove the request.
When user makes a req, it goes to ns. Ns ask client to connect to ss. In this connection packet only client sends the required function call it needs to do.


Writes:
Client requests a write function. The ns checks if client has write permissions. If not, the client is denied.
If the client has permissions, the ns gives ss port and ip to client and asks it to connect to the ss.
If the file is not already in memory tokenised, the file is tokenised and put in memory. The file remains tokenised in memory as long as someone is writing to it. So to check if file is tokenised in memory or not, it must be checked if no. of writers >= 1.
After connecting, checks if the sentence the client wants is already locked. If it is, the ss denies the client and closes connection.
If the sentence is not locked, the ss locks the sentence for this client, and adds the client username to the sentence lock to indicate that this particular client has locked this sentence.
Now, the ss transfers ONLY that sentence to the client side. In the client temp file, this sentence is written down. Now the client manipulates the sentence using the commands in write. From file.h, update_sentence_at_index() command is used to update the sentence in temp file after every update performed by client.
Finally, when the client commits the write, the client sends the temp file and ss receives it. The ss finds the sentence at which the client was trying to write, by checking every sentence’s locked username. If the username matches, the ss tokenises the temp file, then removes that sentence in the original file and replaces it with the one obtained from tokenised temp file. Then the file is rewritten with the stuff from the in memory tokenised stuff. After this is done, number of writers is reduced by 1.
If one commit is happening, and another comes in, the commits are queued, and served one after another. If any read/stream comes DURING a commit, the request is queued. After the commits before that read/stream are done, the read/stream is served.
For a stream, the file is loaded in memory of ss and then streamed.



Missing: 
EXEC
LIST users
LOGGING

Clarification:
BACKUP DESIGN
VIEW: I think it should be directly served from ns. View all files everywhere. Some metadatas which should be stored in info_dir of ns.
